
===== PAGE 1 =====
Research
Coronavirus Disease 2019—Article
Can Masks Be Reused After Hot Water Decontamination During the
COVID-19 Pandemic?
Dan Wang a, Bao-Chang Sun a, Jie-Xin Wang a, Yun-Yun Zhou b, Zhuo-Wei Chen b, Yan Fang b, Wei-Hua Yue c,
Si-Min Liu c, Ke-Yang Liu c, Xiao-Fei Zeng a, Guang-Wen Chu a, Jian-Feng Chen a,⇑
a State Key Laboratory of Organic–Inorganic Composites, Beijing University of Chemical Technology, Beijing 100029, China
b Beijing Municipal Institute of Labour Protection, Beijing 100054, China
c Beijing Institute of Medical Device Testing, Beijing 101111, China
article info
Article history:
Received 26 May 2020
Accepted 29 May 2020
Available online 27 June 2020
Keywords:
Masks
Reusable
COVID-19
Decontamination
Green development concept
abstract
Masks have become one of the most indispensable pieces of personal protective equipment and are
important strategic products during the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic. Due to the huge
mask demand–supply gap all over the world, the development of user-friendly technologies and methods
is urgently needed to effectively extend the service time of masks. In this article, we report a very simple
approach for the decontamination of masks for multiple reuse during the COVID-19 pandemic. Used
masks were soaked in hot water at a temperature greater than 56 /C176C for 30 min, based on a recommended
method to kill COVID-19 virus by the National Health Commission of the People’s Republic of China. The
masks were then dried using an ordinary household hair dryer to recharge the masks with electrostatic
charge to recover their ﬁltration function (the so-called ‘‘hot water decontamination + charge regenera-
tion” method). Three kinds of typical masks (disposable medical masks, surgical masks, and KN95-grade
masks) were treated and tested. The ﬁltration efﬁciencies of the regenerated masks were almost main-
tained and met the requirements of the respective standards. These ﬁndings should have important
implications for the reuse of polypropylene masks during the COVID-19 pandemic. The performance evo-
lution of masks during human wear was further studied, and a company (Zhejiang Runtu Co., Ltd.)
applied this method to enable their workers to extend the use of masks. Mask use at the company was
reduced from one mask per day per person to one mask every three days per person, and 122 500 masks
were saved during the period from 20 February to 30 March 2020. Furthermore, a new method for detec-
tion of faulty masks based on the penetrant inspection of ﬂuorescent nanoparticles was established,
which may provide scientiﬁc guidance and technical methods for the future development of reusable
masks, structural optimization, and the formulation of comprehensive performance evaluation standards.
/C2112020 THE AUTHORS. Published by Elsevier LTD on behalf of Chinese Academy of Engineering and
Higher Education Press Limited Company. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license
(http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
1. Introduction
During the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic in
2020, masks have become one of the most indispensable pieces of
personal protective equipment. On 20 January 2020, Prof.
Nan-Shan Zhong, the head of the high-level expert group appointed
by the National Health Commission of the People’s Republic of
China to ﬁght the novel coronavirus, emphasized the importance
of wearing masks in an interview with China Central Television
[1]. On 22 January 2020, the spokesperson of the National Health
Commission in the State Council Information Ofﬁce of the People’s
Republic of China advocated the ‘‘mask civilization” and pointed
out that ‘‘wearing masks is not only for the protection of ourselves,
but also for the protection of others” [2]. However, according to the
data publicly reported by the Ministry of Industry and Information
Technology of the People’s Republic of China, the production of
masks in China was only 8 million per day on 23 January 2020
and reached 10 million per day by 2 February 2020. Given China’s
population of over 1.4 billion people, the huge mask demand–
supply gap is obvious. According to Technical guidance on the
selection and use of masks for different population to prevent novel
coronavirus, which was released by the National Health
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eng.2020.05.016
2095-8099//C2112020 THE AUTHORS. Published by Elsevier LTD on behalf of Chinese Academy of Engineering and Higher Education Press Limited Company.
This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license ( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
⇑ Corresponding author.
E-mail address: chenjf@mail.buct.edu.cn (J.-F. Chen).
Engineering 6 (2020) 1115–1121
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Engineering
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/eng

===== PAGE 2 =====
Commission of the People’s Republic of China on 4 February 2020,
people in supermarkets, shopping malls, airports, subways, indoor
ofﬁces, and other low-risk places are recommended to wear dispos-
able medical masks or surgical masks to prevent the spread of the
COVID-19 virus [3]. As a result, medical masks, which were origi-
nally designed for use in clinics and hospitals, are now widely used
and appear in stations, airports, markets, parks, and other public
places. The technical guideline also indicated that during the
COVID-19 pandemic, the use of masks may be appropriately
extended (including the duration of single use and times of
repeated use) if it is safe to do so. In particular, people in low-risk
places are recommended to reuse masks. However, the existing
national standards and local standards for masks mainly focus on
the performance of disposable masks, and there are no speciﬁc
requirements or instructions on mask performance for multiple
uses, including the duration of a single use, disinfection methods,
and the number of times a mask can safely be reused. How can
masks be efﬁciently sanitized for multiple uses during the COVID-
19 pandemic? Are masks damaged during decontamination treat-
ment? How many times can masks be decontaminated by appropri-
ate methods? In fact, there is no scientiﬁc theory or experi- mental
data support to answer these questions. During the mask shortage,
most people—including front-line medical staff—have been sponta-
neously reusing masks several times, which eases the tension
between supply and demand to a certain extent; however, this
practice might also increase these people’s risk of exposure. There-
fore, user-friendly technologies and methods are urgently needed
to effectively extend the service time of masks.
Masks, including disposable medical masks, surgical masks,
medical protective masks, and dust masks, are usually made of
non-woven polypropylene fabric with electrostatic properties that
enhance particle capture. The electrostatic charge keeps airborne
particles out by drawing them onto the ﬁber surfaces, much like
iron ﬁlings are drawn onto a magnet. The spaces between the
ﬁbers of the mask at the microscale are much larger than the sizes
of bacterial viruses and respiratory aerosols/droplets, so masks are
not able to block particles at the nanoscale by means of mechanical
ﬁltration. Therefore, the electrostatic charge on the ﬁbers plays an
important role in intercepting virus particles with diameters of
100 nm and aerosols/droplets containing bacterial viruses. In the
process of using the mask, elimination of the electrostatic charge
layer occurs along with the deposition of bacteria viruses and haze
(water vapor) onto the electrostatic layers, which causes a decline
in ﬁltration efﬁciency and even invalidation of the protective per-
formance of the mask. Therefore, during the COVID-19 pandemic, if
people are driven by necessity to extend the use of masks that
were originally designed and marketed as disposable masks, there
are two points to consider: ﬁrst, user-friendly decontamination to
kill possible COVID-19 viruses on the used masks; and, second, efﬁ-
ciently controlled charge regeneration of masks to maintain mask
performance for reuse. On 14 February 2020, the ScienceNet web-
site reported a preliminary ‘‘regeneration treatment” approach
toward the reuse of disposable masks developed by our group at
Beijing University of Chemical Technology [4]. Advice was given
to soak used medical masks in hot water at a temperature greater
than 56 /C176C (typically 60–80 /C176C) for 30 min for decontamination.
Ordinary household appliances such as a hair dryer, electric fan,
or electronic igniter would then be used to dry the masks and
recharge them with electrostatic charge. Successful regeneration
of a mask could be conﬁrmed by sprinkling the mask with small
scraps of paper at home, without the need for special professional
instruments [4]. According to ofﬁcial guidance from Prevention and
control program of COVID-19 (4th edition) released by the National
Health Commission of the People’s Republic of China on 6 February
2020 [5], this temperature (> 56 /C176C) and time (30 min) are efﬁcient
for killing the COVID-19 virus. The charge-regeneration procedure
aims to infuse the ﬁlter with electrostatic charge, which is the key
contributor to a mask’s high level of ﬁltration.
In this article, we summarize our experimental results and
evaluations on three kinds of typical masks (disposable medical
masks, surgical masks, KN95-grade masks) treated by the
so-called ‘‘hot water decontamination + charge regeneration”
approach. The evolution of static electricity on the masks is
revealed. The microstructures of the masks were studied by scan-
ning electron microscope (SEM) and the waterproof properties
were assessed by the hydrostatic pressure method. The ﬁlterability
of the masks was tested according to respective national standards
and local standards. The performance of the KN95-grade masks in
121 /C176C steam for 30 min, which is a well-accepted approach for
killing almost all pathogens, was also investigated. Furthermore,
a method based on ﬂuorescent nanoparticle penetrant inspection
was proposed for the detection of inner defects in used masks, in
order to provide necessary data for the development of reusable
masks, structural optimization, and evaluation standards.
2. Materials and methods
2.1. Samples
Three types of disposable masks were tested: disposable medi-
cal masks (CHTC Jiahua Non-woven Co., Ltd., China), disposable
surgical masks (from three locations: ESound Medical Device Co.,
Ltd., Anbang Medical Supplies Co., Ltd., and Yubei Medical Supplies
Co., Ltd., China), and KN95-grade masks (the 3M 9502 and KF94
masks from the Republic of Korea). These masks are referred to
herein as ‘‘JH,” ‘‘YX,” ‘‘AB,” ‘‘YB,” ‘‘3M,” and ‘‘KF,” respectively.
2.2. Hot water decontamination and charge regeneration
Three kinds of containers, including a household aluminum
basin, a polypropylene plastic lunch box, and a stainless steel ther-
mos cup, were used in the experiments. In a typical procedure,
boiling water was directly poured into the container at room tem-
perature. The volume of water exceeded 80% of the total capacity
of the container and the temperature was measured by a ther-
mometer. The mask was immersed in the water by placing a heav-
ier object on top of it, such as a spoon. The container was then
closed and the mask was left to soak in the hot water for 30 min.
After that, the container was opened and the mask was removed
from the hot water. The liquid on the mask was slightly shaken
off and the mask was placed on the surface of dry insulating mate-
rial, such as wooden, plastic tables, and bed sheets. The mask was
then dried with a standard hair dryer for 10 min.
2.3. Static electricity test
A hand-held electrostatic ﬁeld meter (FMX-004; Simco, Japan)
was used to test the electrostatic charge of mask. The mask to be
tested was hung on an insulation component at least 5 m away
from other instruments with static electricity in order to avoid
interference from other static electricity ﬁelds. Before measure-
ment, the researcher washed his or her hands with water to
remove static electricity from the hands. The probe was gradually
moved closer to the measurement position on the mask until the
two laser dots from the electrostatic ﬁeld meter coincided. The
value of the instrument readings was recorded.
2.4. Waterproof test
Waterproof testing of the masks was performed by a Buchner
funnel procedure. To summarize, the mask was placed at the
1116 D. Wang et al. / Engineering 6 (2020) 1115–1121
===== PAGE 3 =====
bottom of the bowl, with the outer surface of the mask facing
upward. A hose pipe was used to attach the ﬁlter ﬂask sidearm
onto the vacuum aspirator. A vacuum aspirator operating at 30
L/C1min/C01 was used for the suction of liquids, through the ﬁlter
paper. A total of 100 mL water was then poured onto the surface
of mask within 20 s from a height of 20 cm. The pumping ﬁltration
was maintained for 3 min and the ﬂask was watched to see if water
dropped down. Then the water was removed from the Buchner
funnel, and the vacuum suction system was turned off. The
inner surface of the mask was then observed to determine the
wettability/waterproofness of the mask.
2.5. Filterability test
The ﬁltration efﬁciency of the samples for sodium chloride
(NaCl) particles was measured by using TSI 8130 equipment (TSI
Incorporated, USA). The particle size distribution of the NaCl aero-
sol for the speciﬁed test conditions was the median diameter of the
number of particles at (0.075 ± 0.020) lm. The geometric standard
deviation did not exceed 1.86 and the concentration did not exceed
200 mg /C1m/C03. The detection system had a device to neutralize the
charged particles. To test the KN95-grade masks, the gas ﬂow rate
was stabilized to (85 ± 4) L /C1min/C01, while to test the disposable
medical masks and surgical masks, the gas ﬂow rate was stabilized
to (30 ± 2) L /C1min/C01, and the cross-sectional area of the air ﬂow was
100 cm 2.
3. Results and discussion
3.1. Decontamination of masks
It has been well accepted that the COVID-19 virus can be killed
after being maintained at over 56 /C176C for 30 min [5]. Due to thermal
activation, the envelope protein of the virus will denature and the
virus will lose its infectious ability. Therefore, high-temperature
treatment is an effective way to kill the virus. In our work, we pro-
posed the hot water method for mask decontamination; that is,
killing the potential COVID-19 virus on a used mask by keeping
the mask in hot water at greater than 56 /C176C for 30 min
[5]. Fig. 1(a) shows the three types of containers used in our experi-
ments: a household aluminum basin, a polypropylene plastic
lunch box, and a stainless steel thermos cup. When boiling water
was ﬁrst poured into the container at a room temperature of
20 /C176C, the temperature of the water was measured at around
90 /C176C, and decreased as time passed. After 30 min, the tempera-
tures of the water in the covered aluminum basin and in the
polypropylene plastic lunch box were both around 60 /C176C, and the
temperature of the water in the stainless steel thermos cup was
85 /C176C( Fig. 1(b)). Thus, the hot water approach for mask decontami-
nation is easy to achieve at home. Compared with other proposed
decontamination methods for masks, such as organic solvent,
ultraviolet (UV) radiation, and hydrogen peroxide steam, hot water
decontamination is more suitable for people to perform at home
without the use of additional solvents or high-tech equipment. In
addition, this approach has the advantage of cleaning the mask
to some degree. Fig. 1 (c) shows a typical used mask that has been
worn for 4 h. Although the used mask looks as good as new, some
ﬂuorescent spots were clearly observed under a 365 nm UV lamp.
The ﬂuorescence signal was generated by wastes from the oral
cavity and respiratory tract of the user. These wastes were
adsorbed on the masks, making the masks smell bad. After decon-
tamination of the used mask in hot water, followed by drying treat-
ment, no ﬂuorescent spots were observed on the masks under the
UV lamp ( Fig. 1 (d)) and there was no bad smell from the masks.
3.2. Variation of electrostatic quantity
Typical masks are composed of three layers of non-woven fabric
(Fig. 2(a)). The outer layer is a waterproof non-woven fabric that is
used to isolate the liquid sprayed by others, and the inner layer is a
common non-woven fabric that absorbs the moisture released by
the wearer. The ﬁlter layer in the middle, which is composed of a
polypropylene melt-blown non-woven fabric treated with electret,
serves as a barrier against germs. In typical masks, the melt-blown
ﬁlter layer is 100–1000 lm thick and is composed of polypropy-
lene microﬁbers with diameters in the range of 1–10 lm
(Figs. 2 (b) and (c)). The ﬁltering mechanism of a typical mask
involves Brownian diffusion, entrapment, inertial collision, gravity
sedimentation, and electrostatic adsorption. Among these factors,
electrostatic adsorption is critical for masks to capture nano-
sized particles in order to achieve high ﬁlterability while maintain-
ing low gas resistance. During mask decontamination in hot water,
the static electricity disappears. To reuse a mask, the microﬁbers of
the melt-blown ﬁlter layers must be recharged with static electrici-
ty to capture nanoparticles. After naturally air-drying masks for
10 h in our experiment, the static electricity of the surgical masks
was recovered to 60% of the level of new masks ( Fig. 2 (d)), due to
Fig. 1. (a) Three types of containers used in our experiments: a household aluminum basin, a polypropylene plastic lunch box, and a stainless steel thermos cu p; (b) the
temperature of freshly boiled water when ﬁrst poured into the containers and then after 30 min; (c) photographs of a typical used mask under daylight an d under 365 nm UV
lamp excitation, as well as (d) the same mask after decontamination in hot water.
D. Wang et al. / Engineering 6 (2020) 1115–1121 1117
===== PAGE 4 =====
micro-friction of the microﬁbers caused by the air ﬂow of the dry-
ing process. However, when a more effective method was used—
that is, drying the mask with a standard hair dryer for 10 min—
the static electricity of the surgical mask was recovered to 90% of
the level of a new mask ( Fig. 2 (e)). These results indicate that the
electrostatic charge attenuation velocity of a regenerated mask is
similar as that of a new mask. Therefore, it is feasible and effective
to recharge a mask with static electricity. Compared with natural
air-dry processing, the use of a standard hair dryer removes the
moisture from a wet mask more quickly and recharges the mask
with static electricity more efﬁciently. This method is particularly
suitable for rapid charge regeneration of masks in humid regions
or during humid weather. In addition, allowing a mask to air-dry
naturally over a long period of time allows the potential growth
of a large amount of bacteria and microorganisms. In contrast,
rapidly regenerating the charge after a mask has been decontami-
nated in hot water prevents the growth of bacteria inside the mask.
3.3. Waterproof property and microstructure analysis
As mentioned above, the outer layer of a mask is usually made
of a waterproof non-woven fabric to isolate the liquid sprayed by
others. Therefore, a mask’s waterproof property is a key factor
for ensuring the mask’s performance in blocking the microorgan-
isms in liquid droplets. Using a hydrostatic testing method
(Fig. 3(a)), we demonstrated that the regenerated masks presented
good water resistance. Even after masks had been repeatedly trea-
ted for 10 cycles of decontamination (soaking in hot water for
30 min) and charge regeneration (drying with a hair dryer for
10 min), they still maintained a good waterproof property; that
is, no water seepage was observed in the inner layers of the masks
(Fig. 3 (b)). These results indicate that decontamination and
regeneration processing over 10 cycles did not damage the struc-
ture of the polypropylene ﬁbers. As seen in the SEM images, the
microstructures of the regenerated masks were similar to those
of new masks, and no signiﬁcant ﬁber breakage or fracturing was
observed in either the outer layers ( Fig. 3 (c)) or the ﬁlter layers
(Fig. 3 (d)).
3.4. Effects of decontamination on mask ﬁlterability
As typical personal protective equipment, masks are used to
block microorganisms, droplets, pollen, and other particles. Thus,
ﬁlterability is one of the most important indexes of a mask. In
our experiments, the ﬁlterability of three typical mask types (dis-
posable medical masks, surgical masks, KN95-grade masks) was
tested after hot water decontamination and charge-regeneration
treatments, following the rules of the respective national standards
or industrial standards in China. To summarize, the regenerated
masks were treated by soaking in hot water at 56 /C176C for 30 min
and were then dried using a standard hair dryer for 10 min. A bac-
terial ﬁltration efﬁciency (BFE) test determines the ﬁltration efﬁ-
ciency by comparing the bacterial control counts with the test
article efﬂuent counts, and is a key performance indicator for both
disposable medical masks and surgical masks. According to the
standards for a single-use medical face mask (YY/T 0969–2013)
and a surgical mask (YY 0469–2011), the BFE of these masks
should be no less than 95%. Fig. 4 shows the BFE values of a
regenerated disposable medical mask (JH) and a regenerated
surgical mask (YB) in our experiments, which are higher than
95% ( Fig. 4 (a)). A particle ﬁltration efﬁciency (PFE) test evaluates
the nonviable particle retention or ﬁltration efﬁciency of ﬁlter
media and other ﬁltration devices at sub-micron levels. The stan-
dards for single-use medical face masks (YY/T 0969–2013) have no
requirement for PFE, whereas the standards for surgical masks (YY
0469–2011) state that the PFE should be no less than 30% under
speciﬁc conditions. In our experiments, we found that most of
the regenerated surgical masks had a PFE much higher than 30%,
with an average value of 92.3%. For KN95-grade masks, the PFE
should be no less than 95% under speciﬁc conditions, according
to the Chinese national standard GB 2626–2019. In our experi-
ment, the KN95-grade masks (3M and KF) retained a PFE greater
than 95% ( Fig. 4 (b)). In order to investigate the effects of the
regeneration treatment on the properties of the masks, we pre-
pared samples of ﬁve different brands of masks (JH, AB, YX, 3M,
Fig. 2. (a) Photographs of the triple-layer structure of a typical surgical mask; (b) an
SEM cross-section image revealing the microstructures of the three layers of a
typical surgical mask; (c) an SEM image of the melt-blown ﬁbers of the ﬁlter layer;
(d) the electrostatic capacity of the ﬁlter layers of new masks and of recharged
masks that have been naturally air-dried for 10 h; (e) the electrostatic capacity of
the ﬁlter layers of new masks and of recharged masks that have been dried using a
standard hair dryer for 10 min.
Fig. 3. (a) Schematic illustration for testing the waterproof property of masks;
(b) photographs of the inner layer of the mask after testing; (c) SEM image of the
outer layer of the mask; (d) SEM image of the ﬁlter layer of the mask.
1118 D. Wang et al. / Engineering 6 (2020) 1115–1121
===== PAGE 5 =====
and KF) that were treated by hot water decontamination and
charge-regeneration processing for 10 cycles. As shown in
Fig. 4 (c), regeneration processing over 10 cycles had little effect
on the ﬁltration properties. Furthermore, we extended our investi-
gations to decontamination treatment at a higher temperature. The
KN95-grade masks (3M and KF) were placed in an autoclave, cov-
ered with a clean piece of cloth to avoid damage from heavy turbu-
lence. Steam sterilization is the most widely available and
dependable method for disinfection and sterilization in healthcare
facilities, and most hospitals and many clinics already have the
necessary materials on hand to sterilize surgical equipment. In
our experiments, the masks were treated by pressurized steam at
121 /C176C for 30 min. The average PFE of the 3M 1860 masks after
steam sterilization was measured to be 99.2% and that of the
KF94 masks was 96.6% ( Fig. 4 (d)). According to the experimental
results, the regenerated masks was still at a relatively high level;
therefore, the regenerated masks should have a signiﬁcant effect
on blocking microorganisms, droplets, pollen, and other particles.
3.5. Effects of actual service processing
In order to study the inﬂuence of actual service processing on
masks, we examined mask samples that had been worn for 8 h
by participants. For surgical masks, the effects of wearing varied
among individuals and for the same individuals at different times.
After being worn for 8 h, followed by hot water decontamination
and charge regeneration, the PFE values of the surgical masks
decreased by 0.5%–12% in our experiments, based on the testing
of 15 samples. However, all of the tested KN95-grade masks (10
samples) that had been worn for 8 h, followed by hot water decon-
tamination and charge regeneration, were able to retain ﬁltration
efﬁciencies greater than 95%. It was observed that the waterproof
property of masks that were worn might change, as a result of
the adsorption of dirt and oil from the participants’ skin. Fig. 5 (a)
shows droplets on the surface of the outer layer of a typical dispos-
able medical mask under daylight and under a 365 nm UV lamp,
respectively. Under UV excitation, the droplets of water lacked
brightness but the ﬂuorescent nanodispersion droplets exhibited
a bright blue emission due to the ﬂuorescence of the carbon nano-
dots. After removing the droplets, no signiﬁcant marks of the ﬂuo-
rescent nanoparticles were observed ( Fig. 5 (b)), indicating the
excellent resistance to wetting of the outer layer of the mask. How-
ever, if the wettability of the masks was enhanced by potential
interfacial reactions between dirt/oil and the ﬁbers, a spontaneous
inﬁltration process could be promoted. In this work, we developed
a ﬂuorescent liquid penetrant test based on ﬂuorescent nanodis-
persion for investigating masks. To summarize, water-dispersible
carbon nanodots [6] were sprayed onto the surface of the outer
layer of the mask, and the liquid drops were then allowed to
remain for 30 min while the penetrant was sinking into the mask.
After that, the excess liquid on the surface of the outer layer of the
mask was removed, and the inner layer of the mask was inspected
under the irradiation of a hand-held UV lamp with emission at
365 nm. As shown in Fig. 5 (c), no signiﬁcant ﬂuorescence signal
of the nanodots was observed when testing new masks. However,
the ﬂuorescent nanoparticles penetrated into the surface defects of
a mask that was damaged by oil, with the ﬂuorescence signal
mainly being concentrated in the ‘‘damaged area,” where the
hydrophobicity of the ﬁbers changed. These ﬁndings may aid in
the development of new materials and design strategies for reusa-
ble masks.
3.6. Practical application
A Chinese company named Zhejiang Runtu Co., Ltd., which is a
large-scale stock enterprise with over 4000 staff members engaged
in producing and selling disperse dyes, reactive dyes, chemical
intermediates, and so forth, faced a shortage of masks in mid-
February 2020, when the workers resumed work. To carry out sci-
entiﬁc and orderly prevention and control work in accordance with
the law, the workers needed to wear masks during the COVID-19
pandemic. However, it was difﬁcult to obtain enough mask sup-
plies in China from February to March 2020. Scientiﬁc and techni-
cal engineers at Runtu learned about our technology, which had
been reported by ScienceNet [4], and independently veriﬁed the
engineering feasibility of the hot water decontamination and
Fig. 4. (a) BFE results of a regenerated disposable medical mask (JH) and a regenerated surgical mask (YB). (b) PFE results of regenerated KN95-grade masks. ( c) PFE results of
new and regenerated masks after 10 regeneration cycles. The PFE of new and regenerated disposable medical masks (JH) and surgical masks (AB and YX) was tested according
to the Chinese industrial standard YY 0469–2011, using a gas ﬂow rate of 30 L ∙min/C01. The PFE of new and regenerated KN95-grade masks (3M and KF) was tested according to
the Chinese national standard GB 2626–2019, using a gas ﬂow rate of 85 L ∙min/C01. (d) The PFE of KN95-grade masks after decontamination with pressurized steam at 121 /C176C
for 30 min, followed by charge regeneration.
D. Wang et al. / Engineering 6 (2020) 1115–1121 1119
===== PAGE 6 =====
charge-regeneration method. The company then required their
workers to apply the hot water decontamination and charge-
regeneration method in order to safely and effectively reuse their
masks. Between 20 February and 30 March 2020, mask usage at
Runtu was reduced from one mask per day per person to one mask
every three days per person, and 122 500 masks were saved by this
company during the COVID-19 pandemic in China [7,8].
4. Conclusions
Masks have been recommended as a powerful tool to tackle the
COVID-19 pandemic. In many countries around the world, people
are not allowed into public places or on public transportation with-
out wearing masks [9]. Growing evidence is demonstrating the
beneﬁts of wearing masks in preventing the transmission of
human coronaviruses and inﬂuenza viruses from symptomatic
individuals [10]. However, the limited productivity and scarce
resources cannot meet the ever-increasing demand for masks.
Meanwhile, pollution caused by waste masks is having an adverse
effect on the economic development of society and on the ecologi-
cal environment. Therefore, the development of user-friendly
methods to effectively extend the service time of masks is urgently
needed. Our group proposed a speciﬁcally designed method for
household use to extend the use of disposable masks in mid-
February 2020. In this article, we summarize our experimental
results and evaluations on three typical kinds of mask (disposable
medical masks, surgical masks, and KN95-grade masks) treated by
the so-called ‘‘hot water decontamination + charge regeneration”
approach. We provide solid evidence that the essential perfor-
mance of the masks was maintained after decontamination for
up to 10 cycles. It should be noted that several other technical solu-
tions for N95 respirators have been reported very recently. For
example, researchers at the University of Nebraska Medical Center
built towers of UV bulbs to kill viruses on masks, while Bioquell
Inc. manufactured hydrogen peroxide vapor generators for the
decontamination of N95 masks for multiple use [11]. Scientists at
4C Air, Inc. and at Stanford University have reported that heat
(/C2085 /C176C) under various levels of humidity ( /C20100% relative humid-
ity) is a promising, nondestructive method for the preservation of
the ﬁltration properties in N95-grade respirators, since they have
found that UV light can potentially impact the material strength
and subsequent sealing of masks [12].
Compared with approaches that use ‘‘high-tech” equipment
such as UV radiation towers, hydrogen peroxide vapor generators,
or constant-temperature cabinets, our work provides a simpler and
more convenient method for the decontamination of masks during
the COVID-19 pandemic. By soaking the masks in hot water at
greater than 56 /C176C for 30 min, viruses are killed and the dirt on
the surface of the masks is removed. After the mask is dried with
a standard hair dryer for 10 min, the static electricity of the surgi-
cal mask can be recovered to 90% of the level of a new mask.
According to tests on three typical kinds of masks (disposable
medical masks, surgical masks, and KN95-grade masks), all of the
regenerated masks retained a similar waterproof property,
microstructure, and ﬁlterability in comparison with the respective
new masks. For the KN95-grade masks with good quality, we
found that the masks retained a PFE greater than 95% after being
treated in pressurized steam at 121 /C176C for 30 min. These results
demonstrate that the regenerated masks should have a signiﬁcant
effect in blocking microorganisms, droplets, pollen, and other par-
ticles. We also studied the inﬂuence of actual service processing on
masks. For surgical masks, the effects of wearing vary among indi-
viduals and for the same individual at different times. After being
worn for 8 h, followed by hot water decontamination and charge
regeneration, the PFE values of surgical masks decreased by
0.5%–12% in our experiments on 15 samples. However, all tested
samples of KN95-grade masks that had been worn for 8 h, followed
by pressurized steam at 121 /C176C for 30 min and charge regeneration,
were able to retain ﬁltration efﬁciencies greater than 95%. A ﬂuo-
rescent liquid penetrant test based on ﬂuorescent nanodispersion
for investigating masks was carried out, and revealed that the
adsorption of dirt and oil from participants’ skin was partly respon-
sible for changes in the wettability and ﬁlterability of polypropy-
lene masks. Many researchers have made great efforts regarding
the reuse of masks, and have conducted active and beneﬁcial
exploration. Some industry associations have issued related stan-
dards to ensure the quality and life of masks for multiple
reuses, including the standards for reusable civil masks
(T/BJFX 0001–2020) and for reusable daily protective masks
(T/CSTM 00387–2020) that have been released by industry associ-
ations in China. Many productions of reusable masks are coming
onto the market [13]. We hope that this short communication arti-
cle can contribute to alleviating the panic over mask shortage and
to promoting new methods for the detection of mask damage
zones and the optimal design of reusable masks.
Acknowledgements
We are grateful for ﬁnancial support from the National Key
Research and Development Program of China (2020YFC0844800).
Fig. 5. Photographs of the outer layer of (a) a typical disposable medical mask with
liquid droplets of water and ﬂuorescent nanodispersion on the surface and (b) the
same mask after removing the droplets. The inner layer of (c) a new mask and (d) a
mask with a patch of oil after ﬂuorescent liquid penetrant testing. The photographs
in the left column were taken under daylight, while the photographs in the right
column were taken under 365 nm UV light.
1120 D. Wang et al. / Engineering 6 (2020) 1115–1121
===== PAGE 7 =====
Compliance with ethics guidelines
Dan Wang, Bao-Chang Sun, Jie-Xin Wang, Yun-Yun Zhou, Zhuo-
Wei Chen, Yan Fang, Wei-Hua Yue, Si-Min Liu, Ke-Yang Liu, Xiao-
Fei Zeng, Guang-Wen Chu, and Jian-Feng Chen declare that they
have no conﬂict of interest or ﬁnancial conﬂicts to disclose.
References
[1] [How is the COVID-19 going?] [video]. Beijing: China Central Television; 2020
Jan 20 [cited 2020 May 1]. Available from: http://tv.cctv.com/2020/01/20/
VIDECRZF7PWXb80z86QyB0db200120.shtml. Chinese.
[2] Qu T, Wang BY. [The National Health Commission of the People’s Republic of
China suggested wearing a mask to promote ‘‘mask civilization”] [Internet].
Beijing: XinhuaNet; 2020 Jan 22 [cited 2020 May 1]. Available from: http://
www.xinhuanet.com/2020-01/22/c_1125493839.htm. Chinese.
[3] [Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism of the State Council: technical
guidance on the selection and use of masks for different population to prevent
novel coronavirus] [Internet]. Beijing: Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism
of the State Council in Response to the Novel Coronavirus Pneumonia; 2020
Feb 4 [cited 2020 May 1]. Available from: http://www.gov.cn/xinwen/2020-
02/05/content_5474774.htm. Chinese.
[4] Cheng W. [Can’t buy mask? It can be reused after regeneration treatment!]
[Internet]. Beijing: ScienceNet; 2020 Feb 14 [cited 2020 May 1]. Available
from: http://news.sciencenet.cn/htmlnews/2020/2/435754.shtm. Chinese.
[5] National Health Commission of the People’s Republic of China. [Prevention and
control program of COVID-19 (4th edition)]. Beijing: General Ofﬁce of National
Health Commission of the People’s Republic of China; 2020 Feb 6 [cited 2020
May 1]. Available from: http://www.nhc.gov.cn/jkj/s3577/202002/573340613
ab243b3a7f61df260551dd4/ﬁles/c791e5a7ea5149f680fdcb34dac0f54e.pdf .
Chinese.
[6] Wang D, Wang Z, Zhan Q, Pu Y, Wang JX, Foster NR, et al. Facile and scalable
preparation of ﬂuorescent carbon dots for multifunctional applications.
Engineering 2017;3(3):402–8 .
[7] Cheng W. [Technology of reuse of masks helps to ﬁght against virus] [Internet].
Beijing: ScienceNet; 2020 Apr 28 [cited 2020 May 1]. Available from: http://
news.sciencenet.cn/htmlnews/2020/4/439043.shtm. Chinese.
[8] Liu Y. Charge regeneration to make full use of each mask [Internet]. Beijing:
Science and Technology Daily; 2020 Apr 29 [cited 2020 May 1]. Available from:
http://digitalpaper.stdaily.com/http _www.kjrb.com/kjrb/ html/2020-04/29/
content_444079.htm. Chinese.
[9] Feng S, Shen C, Xia N, Song W, Fan M, Cowling BJ. Rational use of face masks in
the COVID-19 pandemic. Lancet Respir Med 2020;8(5):434–6 .
[10] Leung NHL, Chu DKW, Shiu EYC, Chan KH, McDevitt JJ, Hau BJP, et al.
Respiratory virus shedding in exhaled breath and efﬁcacy of face masks. Nat
Med 2020;26:676–80 .
[11] Mackenzie D. Reuse of N95 Masks. Engineering 2020;6(6):593–6.
[12] Liao L, Xiao W, Zhao M, Yu X, Wang H, Wang Q, et al. Can N95 respirators be
reused after disinfection? How many times? ACS Nano 2020;14(5):
6348–56.
[13] Zhang Z, Xing Y. New reusable face masks in production [Internet]. Beijing:
China Daily; 2020 Mar 2 [cited 2020 May 1]. Available from: https://www.
chinadailyhk.com/article/122864.
D. Wang et al. / Engineering 6 (2020) 1115–1121 1121